BYLAWS of the Modelica Association (Version 2.1)
================================================

# General regulations #

## § 1 Name and location of the association ##

The name of the association is Modelica Association, abbreviated as MA.

The association has its seat in Linköping, Sweden.

## § 2 Purpose of the association ##

MA is a non-profit, non-governmental organization. The scope of business
comprises coordinated standardization and development of software
technology and methods in the area of cyber physical- systems and
systems engineering. In particular, MA develops and promotes the
Modelica language and Modelica libraries, for specification, modeling,
simulation, other analyses and design methods, as well as systems
operations of physical and technical systems and processes.

MA will own and administrate incorporeal rights related to developed
standards and software, including but not limited to trademarks, the
Modelica Language Specification, the Modelica Standard Libraries, etc.,
which should be generally available for the promotion of industrial and
academic development and research.

MA can approve documents from inside and outside the MA as Modelica
Association standard.

## § 3 Membership and annual fee ##

There are two types of members: individual members and organizational
members.

Membership in MA is open to individual persons who agree to work in
accordance with the purpose of the association and follow the bylaws of
the association.

Membership in MA is also open to companies, institutes, universities and
other organizations, which agree to support the purpose of the
association and follow the bylaws of the association.

An organizational member has to appoint an individual person affiliated
to the organization to represent the organization in all matters related
to the MA. This person is the organization's liaison member. The
benefits granted to organizational and individual members are decided by
the Assembly. The voting rules are further specified in these Bylaws.

For an individual person to become a member of the Modelica Association,
the person must have contributed to an MA Project (see § 21 - § 23) or
to other parts of the Modelica Association. A contribution is typically
demonstrated by

(a) participating in two previous project meetings of registered MA
      Projects during the previous twelve-month period, or

(b) participating in two previous Assembly meetings (see § 12) during
      the previous twelve-month period.

The Assembly also has the right to admit a person as a member during the
second Assembly meeting during the twelve-month period that the person
is present at.

A person applying for membership must reveal his/her major affiliations
with relevance to MA interests and keep the Assembly informed of
important changes in affiliations.

Membership is approved by the Assembly with simple majority (see § 14),
after written application which must be submitted to MA at the latest
two weeks before the respective Assembly meeting takes place.

A leader of a proposed MA Project can be accepted as MA member without
the need to have participated in two previous meetings if he/she has
strong technical and leadership credentials and he/she is accepted as
new member by the Assembly with simple majority (see § 14).

Further directives on the application procedure will be decided by the
Assembly.

Resignation from MA applies immediately after MA received the written
notice.

Each member is obliged to pay the corresponding annual fee which is
determined at the annual Assembly meeting. The MA board can revoke
membership with qualified majority, if a member did not pay the annual
membership fee during the year. The annual fee for
individuals should not be so high that it impedes the membership of
individuals.

## § 4 Financial year ##

MA's financial year is from January 1 to December 31.

## § 5 Decision-making bodies ##

MA's highest decision-making body is the Assembly which consists of all
MA members (individual persons and liaison members/representatives of
member organizations) that are present at an Assembly meeting or take
place in an *electronic vote*.

"Present" at an Assembly or other meeting means to be either personally
present at the meeting location or participating via teleconferencing
mechanisms.
Especially, this means that members can also vote if present via
teleconferencing.

Between meetings the Board (see § 16 and § 17) is MA's point of contact.
The Board will follow the applicable regulations and decisions made by
the Assembly.

MA's Board consists of:

  - a Chairperson,
  - a Vice-Chairperson,
  - a Secretary,
  - a Treasurer,
  - a maximum of five additional Board members who are responsible for
    specific duties and
  - those leaders of registered Modelica Association Projects (see §
    21 - § 23) that are approved by the MA assembly.

The number of additional Board members and their duties for the upcoming
election period are defined at the latest in the Assembly meeting before
the Assembly meeting where the election takes place.

The Chairperson will lead MA's negotiations and work at the Assembly. In
the absence of the Chairperson the Vice-Chairperson will take over. The
Assembly has the right to approve individuals to be present and have the
right to speak at the meeting.

The minutes of MA's meetings will be recorded by the Secretary or a
person delegated by the Assembly. The minutes will be signed by the
Chairperson of the meeting and at least one other member of the Assembly
present at the meeting.

At each meeting there will be a clause in the minutes where the presence
of individual members is noted. Any members who arrive/depart during the
meeting will be noted on arrival/departure.

## § 6 Signing authority ##

The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and the Treasurer each individually
have signing authority for the firm of MA.

The Assembly can authorize a private person, with the limitations
determined by the Assembly, to be a signatory for the firm of MA. This
authority may be revoked at any time by the Assembly.

## § 7 Auditing ##

The operations and accounts of MA will be annually inspected by two
accountants designated by the Assembly. The accountants have the right
to continuously have access to MA's accounts, minutes of Assembly,
Board, and project meetings as well as other documents.

MA's accounts must be made available to the accountants at least five
weeks before the annual Assembly meeting. The auditors will in
accordance with good auditing practice examine the accounts of the
previous financial year and make the audit report available to the Board
at least three weeks before the annual Assembly meeting.

## § 8 Changes to bylaws ##

Any changes to these Bylaws must be approved by the Board and require
identical decisions made by a qualified majority (see § 14) of the
Assembly at two consecutive Assembly meetings, held with at least two
months in between.

## § 9 Modelica Language ##

The Modelica Language development is organized in the MA project
"Modelica Language".

## § 10 Modelica Libraries ##

The development of standardized Modelica libraries is organized in the
MA project "Modelica Libraries".

## § 11 Dissolution ##

To dissolve MA two identical votes with qualified majority (see § 14) by
the Assembly are required at two consecutive Assembly meetings each.

A decision on dissolution may only be made after the matter has been
approved by The Board.

## § 12 Assembly meetings of the Modelica Association ##

The Assembly determines dates for Assembly meetings during the year.
When necessary, the Board can schedule additional Assembly meetings. At
least two Assembly meetings per year have to take place, one of them is
the Annual Assembly meeting. On written request by a member of the
Board, or accountant or members representing at least four votes, the
Board must call an additional Assembly meeting.

For Assembly meetings, the Chairperson must send notice of the meeting
including date, location and preliminary agenda to MA members in writing
or via email at least five weeks before the meeting.

For Assembly meetings that are not annual Assembly meetings, appropriate
parts of the items specified in § 13 are included in the agenda. Items
that are only related to annual matters will not be included.

Proposals and statements to be presented at an Assembly meeting must be
sent in writing (via post, fax or email) to the Chairperson of the
meeting at the latest two weeks before the meeting.

The final agenda, proposals and documents must be available to the
members at latest one week before the meeting.

Proposals for a change in the Bylaws, conducting or cancelling elections
may not be treated as "other business".

At an Assembly meeting the accountants have the right to be present and
to speak.

## § 13 The Annual Assembly meeting ##

Every year the Board must call one annual Assembly meeting before end of
May. This meeting is one of the meetings defined in § 12.

The Board must make MA's annual report, the annual reports of the MA
projects, and the auditors' report available to members at least one
week before the Annual Assembly meeting.

An annual Assembly meeting has the following agenda:

  1. Determining the electoral register for the meeting (by roll-call)

  2. Ratifying whether the meeting has been announced properly

  3. The right of a specified non-member to be present and have the right
     to speak at the meeting

  4. Confirming the agenda

  5. Election of two persons to approve and sign the minutes

  6. Reports:
     - a. MA's annual report for the previous year, prepared by the
           Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson.
     - b. A report for every MA project (see § 21 - § 23), prepared by the
           respective MA project leader.
     - c. MA's administration report (financial statement) for the
          previous financial year, prepared by the Treasurer.

  7. The accountants' report on MA during the previous business and
     financial year

  8. Discharge from liability for the Board for the period the auditing
     applies to

  9. Election of the board members if necessary according to the election
     period (see § 16).

  10. Election of two accountants and a deputy accountant if necessary
      according to the election period (see § 15)

  11. Election of new members in accordance with the current Bylaws (where
      applicable)

  12. Granting resignation

  13. Determining possible changes of the annual fees

  14. Determining the plan of operations and the budget for the current
      financial year and the date of the next annual Assembly meeting as
      well as, when necessary, preliminary dates for the ordinary Assembly
      meetings during the year.

  15. Discussion of proposals and suggestions received

  16. Any other business

  17. End of meeting

## § 14 Voting ##

An individual member present at an Assembly meeting, and not being an
appointed representative for an organizational member (see the next
paragraph), has the right to vote. Such a person has one vote.

An organizational member may exercise voting rights through one
appointed representative present at an Assembly meeting. This is either
(a) the liaison member of the organizational member or (b) a person
acting for the organization that has been given mandate for an Assembly
meeting or an *electronic voting*, by informing the MA Board in writing at
least one week prior to the start of the meeting or the *electronic
voting*. Each such representative has one vote. An individual member who
accepts to be a representative of an organization at a meeting can not
exercise his/her voting rights as an individual member during that
meeting.

A member must be present at a meeting to execute his/her voting rights
(see §5 for the definition of "present"), except for *electronic voting*
(see the definition of *electronic voting* at the end of this paragraph).

The Assembly constitutes a quorum when at least nine members are present
which have the right to vote, one of whom is the Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson. For an *electronic voting*, at least nine valid votes
have to be submitted, one of these votes must be from the Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson.

A *normal decision* is made by *simple majority*. Here a proposal must
receive more than 50 per cent of the valid votes submitted.

A *qualified decision* is made by a *qualified majority.* Here a
proposal must receive more than 66 percent of the valid votes submitted.

A vote abstention is not a submitted vote.

Unless otherwise noted, the *normal decision* has to be applied.

In the event of more than two alternatives, and none of the alternatives
gets the necessary majority, the two alternatives with most votes are
contested in a final vote.

If a member so desires, election of persons will take place by secret
ballot.

An *electronic voting* has to be announced at least 2 weeks before the
voting takes place, and the final proposal (e.g. consisting of a
specification, or a library) must be generally available at least 1 week
before the vote. The voting period is 6 working days. Every member of MA
can vote. The same voting rules as for an Assembly meeting apply. Every
member must have the possibility to inspect the submitted votes. A vote
counter elected at the Assembly meeting summarizes the result and sends
it to all members of MA. Election of persons is not possible by an
*electronic voting*. However, elections of persons during a meeting can be
performed electronically in order that members present via teleconferencing
mechanisms can vote. For secret ballots, an appropriate anonymous service
has to be used in this case. The service and method to be used for the
anonymous voting must be announced together with the agenda of the meeting.

## § 15 Accountants ##

The appointment of accountants takes places every fourth annual Assembly
meeting. If a position of the accountants becomes vacant, this
accountant member must be appointed at the next Assembly meeting for the
duration until the next scheduled MA accountant appointment.

# The Board #

## § 16 Constitution of the Board ##

A Board member must be a member of MA.

The election of the MA Board takes place at every second annual Assembly
meeting. If a position of the Board becomes vacant or one more Board
member shall be introduced, this Board member can be elected at the next
Assembly meeting for the duration until the next scheduled MA Board
election.

## § 17 Duties of the Board ##

The Board is responsible in particular for:

  - making budget proposals and a plan of operations for the following
    financial year and preparing to a certain degree other items that
    will be discussed at Assembly meetings,

  - administrating MA's funds and owned rights,

  - approve proposed changes of Bylaws,

  - generally working for the good of the association.

It is the Chairperson's duty in particular to plan the Assembly meetings
and distribute notice with a preliminary agenda according to § 12.

At Board meetings, Board members are allowed to be present and vote
through teleconferencing mechanisms.

Minutes must be kept during Board meetings.

# Other regulations #

## § 18 Expulsion ##

A member may not be expelled from MA for any other reason than that he
or she has failed to pay the fees determined by MA, worked against the
interests of MA operations, violates laws or regulations that MA has to
fulfill, or clearly damaged the reputation or interests of MA or its
members.

Expulsion is decided on Assembly meetings and applies immediately. The
issue of expulsion may not be decided on until the member has been given
the opportunity to state his or her case in writing and the item has
been discussed by the Assembly.

MA will not refund rightfully paid annual fees.

## § 19 Authors of common documents from MA ##

Individuals who have contributed to common documents from MA or from MA
projects are specified collectively as authors of these documents if
they so wish. In case of conflicting opinions, the Assembly decides on
the authors of MA documents or MA project documents, provided there are
no specific project rules for MA project documents that resolve such a
conflict.

## § 20 Register of members ##

Members are specified on MA's homepage (currently
http://www.modelica.org).

# Modelica Association Projects #

## § 21 Registration of Modelica Association Projects ##

Long term development activities in the scope of the Modelica
Association (see § 2) can be organized in Modelica Association Projects
(MAP). The organizational structure and the rules of each MAP can be
determined independently by this project, as long as they are compliant
with the MA Bylaws, especially with the rules defined in § 22 and § 23.
A set of MAP rules is recommended in the provided 
[MA-Project-Template](MA-Project-Template.md) (this template is not
part of the MA Bylaws).

After a candidate for a project has been proposed to the MA, the MA
Assembly decides on the registration of a project as a MAP with a
qualified majority (see § 14). Registered MAPs are listed on MA's
homepage (currently <http://www.modelica.org>) with their registration
data and a link to the MAP web page.

## § 22 Procedure for registration and de-registration of Modelica Association Projects ##

The proposal of a project for registration as MAP must contain

  - Name and purpose of the project.

  - Rules under which the project intends to work.

  - Initial members of the project (individual and organizational). A
    MAP must have a reasonable number of members.

  - Name, organization and position of the project leader.

The project leader must be a member of the MA before the voting about
the project's registration. If this is not already the case, the
procedure of § 3 can be applied. If the project leader is no longer a
member of MA, another MA member has to be elected as project leader
according to the project rules. Until a new project leader has been
elected, the MA Chairperson is the leader of such a project. After the
MAP registration, the project leader can apply for approval as MA Board
member by the MA.

For clarification: other projects members need not be MA members.

A MAP member can become an MA member according to § 3.

MA has the right to revoke the registration of a MAP if (a) MA bylaws
are violated, (b) laws or regulations that MA has to follow are
violated, or (c) the MAP is changed so that it is no longer compliant
with MA.

If the MA Board suspects that one of the situations from the previous
paragraph occurred it can within 2 months request the MA Project in
writing (including email) to remedy the situation. If the project does
not remove the cause within 2 months after the request of the MA Board,
then the project can be revoked from the MA. For this exclusion a
qualified majority of an MA Assembly (see § 14) is necessary.

Resignation of a project as a MAP applies immediately after MA received
the written notice.

The MA can conditionally accept a MAP with *probationary status* to allow the
project to mature technically and organizationally and align with existing
MA standards. After no more than 3 years, the MA Assembly shall vote again
to accept the MAP unconditionally, extend the probationary status or to
start de-registration proceedings.

## § 23 Terms and conditions for Modelica Association Projects ##

The MAP leader has to prepare a report about the project operation of
the previous year for the MA Annual Assembly meeting.

MA projects can change their rules (which have been previously accepted
by MA) only, if accepted by an MA Assembly meeting with a qualified
majority (see § 14).

MAPs are encouraged to apply for approval of their results by MA as MA
standard according to § 2.

MAPs must make the results of the project work publicly available on the
web under an open source license (usually an open source license approved
by the Open Source Initiative, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses).


MAPs are encouraged to use the MA infrastructure such as MA web, svn,
trac and newsletter. However, an MA project can also build its own
infrastructure, especially an own web page.

Beyond that, MAPs are responsible for their financial and human
resources. MA has the right to support certain works of a MAP with MA
funding with a qualified majority of the Assembly (see § 14).

If a MAP files a trademark, the usual procedure is that the trademark
holder is the Modelica Association and the MAP members reimburse the
trademark costs to the MA. If the MAP decides to leave the Modelica
Association, MA agrees to carry the trademark to the new organization of
the MAP, provided the MAP members carry the cost of this transaction.
